All machines inclued basic instructions on machine

All videos start with the lines:
	Exercise Name
	Read instructions and warning labels
	
	Machine settings
	
	Basic what to do
	
	Slowly return weights to resting position
	
	*Could include cleaning instructions here*
	
Biceps curl:
	options: seat postition, weight 

	properly allign your elbows with the designated red pivot point on the machine
	Feet flat on floor, back fully striaght
	start with arms fully outstretched and pull up until arm is fully curled
	then return slowly to start and repeat
	
Tricep extension:
	keep elbows slightly bent at bottom
	
	feet flat on the floor, back fully striaght
	position elbows alongside torso
	Don't use your legs or abs
	start with arms fully curled and outstretch until arms are fully extended 
	slowly return to starting position and repeat
	
Lat Pulldown:
	keep your shoulders down and back
	this is an equivelent exercise to the chin dip
	
	Lower pad to thighs
	sit facing machine
	Keep back straight, feet flat on the floor, (need to ask about shoulders)
	
	Start with above on bars, flex arms downward as far as comfortable and return

Seated Row:
	Start by leaning forward to grasp the handles
	once in position keep your back straight
	as you preform the exercise squeeze your shoulder blades 
	
	Place feet on platforms, keep knees slightly bent, keep back straight and grasp handles
	While keeping your back straight, pull arms backwards until 
	elbows align with side or slightly behind shoulders or as far as comfortable and return

Pec Fly:
	adjust machine for flexibility of arms or for specific workout
	Keep whole back against seat
	don't bend arms fully
	Face away from machine if preforming pec fly
	Grasp lower handles, placing upper body on pad
	Keeping arms flexed slightly, rotate them inward as far as comfortable and return
Rear Delt:
	Try to extend arms to 180 degrees
	keep shoulder blades down and back
	squeeze shoulder blades as you preform the workout
	Face into machine if preforming rear deltoid
	Grasp upper handles, placing upper body on pad
	Keeping arms flexed slightly, rotate them outwards as far as comfortable and return
	
Rotary Chest:
	don't lean forward
	keep back engaged

	Select seat and handle positions
	grasp handles 
	Extend and rotate arms forward as far as comfortable and return. 
	If you can not bring your hands together at the end of the movement, adjust handles closer to 6.
	If you can not comfortably extend your arms, adjust handles closer to 1.

Inner Thigh:
	adjust yellow knob for flexibilty
	Position pads inside leg above knee. 
	
	Grasp hand grips and support back with pad
	Bring your legs together and then slowly bring them apart.
	Only go as far as comfortable.
	when leaving the machine use the yellow knob to return machine into a neutral state

Outer Thigh:
	
	Position pads above the knee on the outside of your leg.
	Grasp hand grips.
	Support back with pad.
	Move legs apart as far as comfortable.
	Return together at a controlled speed. 
	Only go as far as you are comfortable.

Calf Raise:
	
	5'5"(165 cm) or smaller use top tube
	5'6"(168 cm) or taller use bottom tube
	Put the ball of your feet on the non skid pad

	Grasp the handgrips and push back on the seat until your legs are almost
	extended and you feel a stretch in your calfs
	
	Raise your toes and lift the weights. Slowly bring the weights back down and repeat.

Glute press:
	Adjust the chest pad up or down to a comfortable position.
	Lean against the chest pad, grasp the handles and place one foot onto the foot bar.
	Your foot should be contacting the bar at approximately the mid point, ahead of the ankle
	but behind the ball of the foot.
	Press back and outwards extending your leg as far as possible without locking your knee.
	Return your leg to the beginning position and repeat the process for your other leg.

	when adjusting height of pad it shouldn't
		be so high as to hit your sternum or rib cage
		be so low that you can bend your back
	This machine exercices one leg at a time
	You should try to push your leg as far as possible (try to go through the wall)
	Support leg should:
		point straight forward
		be slightly bent

Leg Extension:
	Select seat position.
	Grasp handles and place shins behind roller pad.
	Extend legs upward as far as comfortable and return.
	
	squeeze your quads

	position bar just above your ankles
	line knees up with red pivot point
	Do not let the weights hit at the bottom

Leg press:
	Select seat back pad angle.
	Sit down and adjust foot platform position, keeping knee angle at approximately 90
	Place feet on platform and grasp handles.
	Extend legs outward as far as comfortable and return.

	seat adjust is based on comfort
	you should feel like you are pulling apart the sled with your feet
		keep ball of foot, foot sword and heel on sled
		don't let your knees go inward, try to bow them out slightly
	push with whole foot
	start with your knees slightly closer than 90 degrees
	don't go past 90 degrees while working out 

	keep feet shoulder width apart	

Seated leg curl:
	Select seat and ankle pad position. Sit down and place ankles on roller pad.
	Lower thigh pad and grasp handles.
	Flex legs backward as far as comfortable and return.
	To exit machine - return weights to resting position then raise thigh pad.
	DO NOT attempt to exit machine with weights elevated.

	put the bar just above your shoe
	If too high use the flexibility knob on the bar
	This machine works the back of the upper leg
	
	Make sure to sit all the way back in the chair
	Make sure knees line up with red pivot
	
Rotary Shoulder:
	Select seat and handle positions. Refer to adjustment guides.
	Grasp handles
	Extend and rotate arms upward as far as comfortable and return.
	If you can not bring your hands together adjust handles closer to 6.
	If you can not comfortable extend your arms, adjust handles closer to 1.

	Keep back pressed into the seat
	rotate handles forward from their resting position
	
Chin dip:
	WARNING:
		Select the amount of assist weight you wish before stepping onto the assist bar.
		Begin with more weight not less.
		Support your body weight by gripping the chin up bar or dip handles before stepping
		onto the assist bar. 
		Before stepping off the assist bare be sure the assist bar has clered the top step.
		Support your body weight when exiting machine.
	DIP
		While standing on top steps select desired width by adjusting dip handles. 
		Firmly grip dip handles.
		While supporting your body weight, step onto the assist bar.
		Allow body to decend to a comfotable level, and then return to the uppermost position.
		Repeat if desired. Keep head away from crossframe components.
		Exit the machine by means of the top steps only.
		DO NOT try to exit machine until assist bar has cleared the top step.
		For unassisted exercise, raise the assist bar and secure in place with adjustment pin.
	 CHIN
		While standing on the top step, chooswe hand position on chinning assembly.
		Firmly grip chin bar.
		While supporting your body weight, step onto assist bar.
		Allow body to descend to a comfortable level, and then return to uppermost position.
		Repeat if desired. Keep head away from crossframe components.
		Exit the machine by means of top step only. 
		DO NOT try to exit the machine until the assist bar has cleared the top step.
		For unassisted exercise, raise the assist bar and secure in place with the adjustment pin.
	
	There are a few types of workout on this machine
		neutral chin up
			parallel bars on top, this is the easiest type
		chin up
			palms face towards user
		pull up
			palms face outwards
		wide varients 
			using the widest points on the bar, this is the hardest varient
		dip bars
			bars by waist height
	Any exercise involving the arms are to go to 90 degrees or else you begin working the shoulders
	there is a weight assist bar 